Developers will develop source code
Build engineers will generate binaries 

Build is a process of converting source code to binaries 

Binaries will be shipped to customers.

Every java file has a .class file

we cannot ship .class files to customers

.class--> compiled version of java code which can run on any platform where java is installed.
we will archive and  ship to customers in terms of jar file.
.class file consists of a byte code 

Creating a binaries for java code and web file and packaging them nicely to customer .

Build Automation - compile 
                   packaging 
                   shipping 				   
		we will use the script 
		Normally build engineers will work on After developing
		
It is a scripting to automate the series of tasks that form your build process which includes compilation,running test cases,deploying,packaging.
Build is a process of generating project artifacts.

Artifacts--> Final entities that are directly deployed on the server.

Automated builds can be implemented through scripting languages.
Ant is one of the most popular build tool java tools.


Release managment is a process of planning , building ,testing and deploying hardware and software ,the version control and storage software.

Build Mangaement


Source code for java project

Source code                       Build Tools          Final artifacts
Java                               Ant & Maven           .jar,.war,.ear
.net                               nant & msbuild        .dll,.exe,.mst        
c/c++                              make file              obj(object) file,rpm(remote pacakge manager)



jar --> java archive (This jar consists(bundle) of  .class files,image files,other component files)   
           which will be needed in the whole application as an application we have jar file but jar consists of all these files       
           Java archive file format enables u to bundle multiple archieve files into single jar file
		   .jar file is designed to facilitate the packaging of java applications
			
war --> web archive (contains jars,jsp's,servlets,html's,gif's etc..,)
       war is deployed on TOMcat web application server   
	   war file is a  java archive file used to store jar,jsps,servelets,metadata informations,classes,images,sounds,tag libraries
       It is standard file extension which will be in a .war format.
       war files are used to  package web modules.
       war files for webapplications that are deployed to a servelet jsp's engines.
	   
ear --> Enterprise archive files (EJBs,jar and war)(war+jar+ejbs)
        It is a J2E application that can be deployed on a websphere.
          
    -->   deployed on weblogic/jboss/websphere application servers.
	
	
	
	
	
	https://ant.apache.org/manual/index.html
	
	
	07/04/2021